README.md, before:

# Ginkgo SARS-CoV-2 synthesis efforts

This repository makes available detailed information for freely available
synthesis efforts related to SARS-CoV-2 at [Ginkgo Bioworks](https://www.ginkgobioworks.com/).

## Overview

Ginkgo is synthesizing SARS-CoV-2 constructs to help the scientific community
develop tests and vaccines to ameliorate the Covid-19 pandemic. We have tried to
widely understand community needs and provide a large collection of resources.

As constructs are synthesized and validated they'll be made available
without restrictions at:

- [Addgene](https://www.addgene.org/Ginkgo_Bioworks/)
- [The BioBricks Free Genes Project](https://biobricks.org/freegenes/)

We'll be sending weekly [submissions of constructs](./submissions) to both
locations, and this repository provides detailed summaries, sequences and
annotations to help make them directly useful. We've provided information on
constructs in progress or planned to give direct insight into what is upcoming.

## Data

- [Top level summary of ongoing and planned projects](./summary/ginkgo-covid-summary.csv),
  grouped to provide context and details

- CSV level summary of constructs:
  - [E coli expression](./summary/ginkgo-covid-e-coli-expression.csv) --
    SARS-CoV-2 proteins in E coli vectors with various C-terminal tags for
    protein expression and purification.
  - [Yeast expression](./summary/ginkgo-covid-yeast-expression.csv) --
    SARS-CoV-2 proteins in Yeast expression vectors with various C-terminal
    tags.
  - [Mammalian expression](./summary/ginkgo-covid-mammalian-expression.csv) --
    Mammalian expression constructs with tags along with Spike protein
    constructs for expression and VSV pseudotyping.
  - [Viral parts](./summary/ginkgo-covid-viral-parts.csv) -- Plasmids containing
    viral DNA.
  - [Yeast plasmid backbone](./summary/ginkgo-covid-yeast-backbone.csv) -- 

- [Sequences and GFF annotation files for constructs](./sequences), with full
  annotations of features in each plasmid

## Feedback

We welcome suggestions on making the data more accessible. Please feel free to
comment on the [GitHub issues page](https://github.com/ginkgobioworks/sars-cov-2-synthesis/issues)

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img
alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0"
src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is
licensed under a <a rel="license"
href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution
4.0 International License</a>.

Commit message:

Improve summary by protein and better overview of organization
- Top level organization that includes purpose of each data view
- structure protein summary in markdown table to include links
- Provide additional context information about each design

README.md, after:

# Ginkgo SARS-CoV-2 synthesis efforts

This repository makes available detailed information for freely available
synthesis efforts related to SARS-CoV-2 at [Ginkgo Bioworks](https://www.ginkgobioworks.com/).

## Overview

Ginkgo is synthesizing SARS-CoV-2 constructs to help the scientific community
develop tests and vaccines to ameliorate the Covid-19 pandemic. We have tried to
widely understand community needs and provide a large collection of resources.

As constructs are synthesized and validated they'll be made available
without restrictions at:

- [Addgene](https://www.addgene.org/Ginkgo_Bioworks/)
- [The BioBricks Free Genes Project](https://biobricks.org/freegenes/)

We'll be sending weekly [submissions of constructs](./submissions) to both
locations, and this repository provides detailed summaries, sequences and
annotations to help make them directly useful. We've provided information on
constructs in progress or planned to give direct insight into what is upcoming,
organized with multiple entry points.

## Data

- [Summary of of constructs by protein](genome/ginkgo-covid-summary-by-protein.md), organized
  based on the [genome structure of SARS-CoV-2](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/03/science/coronavirus-genome-bad-news-wrapped-in-protein.html).
  This is the easiest entry point based on your proteins of interest.

- [Top level summary of ongoing and planned projects](./summary/ginkgo-covid-summary.csv),
  grouped to provide context and details. This is most helpful to get an
  overview of different synthesis projects.

- CSV level summary of constructs. These are most useful to find constructs
  based on expression host or synthesis type:
  - [E coli expression](./summary/ginkgo-covid-e-coli-expression.csv) --
    SARS-CoV-2 proteins in E coli vectors with various C-terminal tags for
    protein expression and purification.
  - [Yeast expression](./summary/ginkgo-covid-yeast-expression.csv) --
    SARS-CoV-2 proteins in Yeast expression vectors with various C-terminal
    tags.
  - [Mammalian expression](./summary/ginkgo-covid-mammalian-expression.csv) --
    Mammalian expression constructs with tags along with Spike protein
    constructs for expression and VSV pseudotyping.
  - [Viral parts](./summary/ginkgo-covid-viral-parts.csv) -- Plasmids containing
    larger segments of viral DNA.
  - [Yeast plasmid backbone](./summary/ginkgo-covid-yeast-backbone.csv) --
    Sections of the plasmid backbone for making yeast expression vectors.

- [Sequences and GFF annotation files for constructs](./sequences), with full
  annotations of features in each plasmid. These provide full sequences and
  annotations once you've identified constructs of interest.

## Feedback

We welcome suggestions on making the data more accessible. Please feel free to
comment on the [GitHub issues page](https://github.com/ginkgobioworks/sars-cov-2-synthesis/issues)

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img
alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0"
src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is
licensed under a <a rel="license"
href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution
4.0 International License</a>.
